.TH "ng-update" "8" "" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
ng\-update \- Initng runlevel configuration tool.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBng\-update\fR \fIa\fR|\fIadd\fR \fIscript1\fR [\fIscript2\fR \fI...\fR] [\fIrunlevel1\fR] [\fIrunlevel2 ...\fR]
.br 
\fBng\-update\fR \fId\fR|\fIdel\fR|\fIdelete\fR \fIscript1\fR [\fIscript2 ...\fR] [\fIrunlevel1\fR] [\fIrunlevel2 ...\fR]
.br 
\fBng\-update\fR \fIs\fR|\fIshow\fR|\fIview\fR [\fIscript\fR] [\fIrunlevel\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
ng\-update allows you to control/show which services are started by initng. Yo can add and delete services to/from different runlevels.
To find out which services are available take a look at /etc/initng/[daemon|net|system].
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fBa, add\fR
Add one or more scripts to one or more runlevels. If runlevel is left blank the script will be added to every runlevel.
.TP 
\fBd, del\fR
Delete one or more scripts from one or more runlevels. If runlevel is left blank the script will be deleted from every runlevel.
.TP 
\fBs, show, view\fR
Shows the scripts started in the passed runlevel(s).
.TP 
\fBscript\fR
A script found in /etc/initng/[daemon|net|system] which should be added/removed.
.br 
The form is [daemon|net|system]/script_without_i. Take a look in the examples section.
.TP 
\fBrunlevel\fR
The runlevel the script(s) should be added to/deleted from. Normally this should be \fI"default"\fR, some times \fI"system"\fR.
.br 
Take a look at \fI/etc/initng/*.runlevel\fR
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Use \fBng\-update add system/alsasound default\fR to add \fIalsasound\fR to the runlevel default.
.br 
Use \fBng\-update del system/alsasound\fR to remove \fIalsasound\fR from every runlevel.
.br 
Use \fBng\-update del system/alsasound default\fR to remove alsasound from the runlevel default.
.br 
Use \fBng\-update show\fR to show \fIall\fR available services and their runlevel (if existing).
.br 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR initng(8)
.BR ngc(8),
.BR ngdc(8),
.BR gen_system_runlevel(8),
.BR install_service(8),
.BR system_off(8).
.SH "AUTHOR"
initng was written by  Jimmy Wennlund <jimmy.wennlund@gmail.com> and can be found at http://www.initng.org/.
.PP 
This manual page was written by Armin Berres <a.berres@onlinehome.de>.
